XCLIPD(1)                   General Commands Manual                  XCLIPD(1)

NAME
     xclipd, xclipin, xclipout, xclipowner - clipboard management utilities

SYNOPSIS
     xclipd
     xclipin [-psw] [-t target] [file]
     xclipout [-p] [-t target]
     xclipowner [-pw]

DESCRIPTION
     xclipd maintains the contents of the CLIPBOARD selection, making it
     possible to close a window without losing the copied data.

     xclipd also keeps the PRIMARY selection synchronized with the CLIPBOARD
     selection.  It makes possible that, whenever something is copied into the
     CLIPBOARD selection, the copied data can also be requested from the
     PRIMARY selection as well (but not the other way around).

     xclipd does not daemonize itself; therefore, it should be run in the
     background.

     xclipin reads data from the given file or standard input and makes it
     available as the STRING target in the CLIPBOARD selection.  All leading
     and trailing space around the read content is ignored.

     xclipout gets data available as the STRING target in the CLIPBOARD
     selection, and write it to the standard output.

     xclipowner writes to the standard output a line containing the ID of the
     current owner of the CLIPBOARD selection.

     The options are as follows:

     -p      Use the PRIMARY selection, rather than the default CLIPBOARD
             selection.

     -s      Do not ignore space characters around content read by xclipin.

     -t target
             Use the given target, rather than the default STRING target.

     -w      Wait/watch mode.  For xclipin, wait until losing the selection,
             rather than forking into background.  For xclipowner, run
             indefinitely, watching for each transition of the selection's
             ownership, ignoring when the owner is a clipboard manager such as
             xclipd.

ENVIRONMENT
     The following environment variables affect the execution of these
     utilities.

     DISPLAY
             The display to use.

SEE ALSO
     X(1)

UNIX                           January 18, 2023                           UNIX
